---
layout: post
title:  "One Hour a Day of Design Engineering - Day 8"
---

Today was the first day of October and I spent around 2.5 hours going over forms. They seem like a really big part of HTML and engineering in general, hence why I spent all my time on them today. I did not get much practice done with them (~ 40 questions), so tomorrow I plan to finish my learning there and maybe move on to new concepts. I noticed that some examples in The Odin Project used JS in some parts (since forms deal with both frontend and backend related stuff and deal with manipulation), but I was able to follow along fine because of my existing programming knowledge. 
<br><br>
My habit has gotten to the point to where it will feel weird/off NOT doing it once a day (for at least an hour). At this point there's no going back and I'm all bought in. I'm really proud of the progress I've been making, and It's quite motivating to be able to look at these posts I've been making and really soak in that I'm building something great over time, slowly but surely. I think LLMs have been a huge help for me so far in regards to accelerating my learning speed as they can churn the "theory -> learn -> practice -> feedback -> iterate" loop very quickly. I'm not sure if I would even have the motivation to do what I do now if not for these fantastic models and their capabilities. The feedback and measurable progress you can see by using this tech and adjusting it to your needs is unfathomably valuable, and I hope this type of learning can be implemented in schooling somehow one day. 