---
layout: post
title:  "One Hour a Day of Design Engineering - Days 22-25"
series_name: One Hour a Day of Design Engineering
---

It's been a while since I last wrote. Been busy with school and various things. However, this doesn't mean I haven't been keeping up with my practice. I've been learning and practicing various CSS things as well as I completely changed my personal site. Re-doing my personal site really helped hone in some things and allowed me to use all my learned knowledge up to this point, which made it quite easy. I re-designed it in just a day and a half, it didn't take too long but it was really helpful in solidifying things. 
<br> <br>
Yesterday and today I started learning JS. I can speed through some things since yk, I'm a CS major but some things are specific for JS which are the things I need to master. My plan is to learn topics from https://javascript.info/ that I have assessed which I need to master/learn before moving onto React. Some things I can skip such as generators, so that should save time. Overall I'll probably spend 2-4 weeks on JS before moving on. My workflow right now looks like using JS.info and feeding topics into Gemini, having it distill bite sized pieces of info to me, then I can do a bunch of practices and coding with the info I learn from that. For example, I can feed the info into Gemini and ask for 10 different exercises to do and have it give me instant feedback and critique which is helpful. Overall, I'm excited to finally move onto JS (I'm no pro at html/css tho!). My biggest worry is that I will forget a lot of my HTML/CSS learning and progress which will set me back, but there are things I can do to mitigate this, I just need to think about efficient workflows. 