---
layout: post
title:  "One Hour a Day of Design Engineering - Day 5"
---

Today I spent about 2.5-3 hours learning and practicing more intermediate CSS/HTML topics and concepts from from The Odin Project. Concepts learned are things like positioning, font related things, z-index, specificity in CSS, and other smaller properties. I think the most important concept learned was the positioning aspect (from what I could tell doing research on Reddit). Of course I am no master yet and need to do a lot more practice, but I feel I have a good grasp on its importance and use.

As content gets more complex, I'm finding it extra helpful to first ask Gemini for flashcard type questions and answers using the concepts I just learned, but with examples. Meaning, the question will be about the concept(s) but contain an example, rather than just the theory. I find this helps transitioning from learning straight to doing. Other than that, the learning process looks about the same. I am really starting to feel the progress and everything building on top of each other as I go along. 

One thing that I am kind of concerned about is the vast number of CSS properties. Based on my research, I obviously don't need to memorize every single property as there are so many, but my question is which ones do I really need to know and which ones are fundamental? I think I've got the crux of that answered, but it is definitely not perfect (in the context of climbing the design engineering skill tree). I guess I'll see as I make more progress. 