---
layout: post
title:  "One Hour a Day of Design Engineering - Day 2"
series: One Hour a Day of Design Engineering

---

Today I spent around 2.5-3 hours learning more CSS and practicing. Most of the work was done with flexboxes since they seem both quite useful and robust, so I will need to have a deep understanding of them. I went through The Odin Project's flexbox basics along with a few other resources, and I will be finishing my work with them tomorrow (hopefully, but I might need more practice). I plan to skip the JavaScript section on The Odin Project for now, and instead go to their intermediate and advanced HTML/CSS lessons. This is simply because I am a CS major in university so I already have a good deal of experience with programming in certain languages, but eventually I will need to learn JavaScript more in depth before moving to React. 

Today was a mixture of both learning and practice. My workflow still looks the same. I am feeding the info I learn into Gemini and asking it for practice problems I can do quickly on JSFiddle. If I don't understand I can ask for hints and I can receive quick feedback that allows me to iterate quickly. My goal is to utilize and play with the info so I can build a deep understanding with it and great intuition by making sure it's locked into my long term memory, because "your missing foundations will wait for you, patiently, until you're ready to acknowledge them."

I'm surprisingly already enjoying this process a lot. It almost feels like a video game in which I am leveling up my skills one by one. Slowly but surely I will climb the skill ladder to success. My end goal for now looks like easily making design iterations, components, website ideas, animations, and similar (innovative) things and being able to upload them for others to see. My other end goal is working on a great team in hopes of achieving greatness. For now, I put my head down and drive forward. 