---
layout: post
title:  "One Hour a Day of Design Engineering - Day 13"
series_name: One Hour a Day of Design Engineering

---

Today was day 13 and I did around an hour of learning and ~2 working on my personal site. I finished the advanced HTML and CSS section on The Odin Project (skipped over animation stuff, will go back to that when needed). Finished with responsive design which was finally nice to learn more about since that has been a pain point for me in the past. Next, I definitely want to get more practice in with everything I've learned. I will probably take on a small project that'll take me a day or two to make sure I really know what I'm doing before I move on to JS. I want to make sure I have a full grasp of everything and gain the needed tacit knowledge. 
<br> <br>
It's funny, after learning all this new stuff and looking at site site's code. It's somehow very messed up in certain ways. Granted, the purpose of this site is to simply display info, I don't really care about it's performance or look (yet), but even then there were some glaring issues in the code. It's nice to go back and see messed up code and rerecognize cgonize where it could be improved because I get to reap the benefits of my hard work. It's actually paying off. 
<br> <br>
Also, today I watched this <a href="https://youtu.be/LVkY-eL-Yts?si=A0L7B1SfDNTIYKnk" target="_blank">podcast</a> with Yacine and I enjoyed it a bunch. Idk I guess I've never been a "lover" of programming/building technical things but seeing Yacine talk about this stuff and other people on X like Ludwig post cool content, along with me doing this design engineering stuff, it's making me enjoy technical building a lot more and really seeing the beauty in it. Just today when working on my site and being able to use my knowledge felt fucking sick. I guess that's what I like about the prospect of being a design engineer; the work I will do will be very "obvious" and I'll be able to see the fruits of my labor in an obvious manner. All this today, all this knowledge and grinding is building on itself and I'm slowly building the love of the game. 